(DOCSP-27349) Update Use @realm/react page (#3071)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/react-native/api-reference/realm-provider.txt

.. _react-native-realm-provider:
.. _react-native-use-realm-react:

============================
RealmProvider (@realm/react)
============================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 3
   :class: singlecol

.. code:: typescript
   :copyable: false
   :caption: Type signature

   RealmProvider(props, context?): null | ReactElement<any, any>

Components nested within ``RealmProvider`` can access the configured realm
and use the ``RealmProvider`` hooks.

Props
-----

All properties of :realm-react-sdk:`BaseConfiguration 
<types/Realm.BaseConfiguration.html>` can be passed as props.

``RealmProvider`` has more props that define its behavior:

- ``fallback?: React.ComponentType<unknown> | React.ReactElement | null | undefined``

>   The fallback component to render if the Realm is not opened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The fallback component to render while the Realm is opening.
```

  component unmounts.
- ``realmRef?: React.MutableRefObject<Realm | null>``

  A ref to the realm instance. This is useful if you need to access the realm
  instance outside of the scope of the realm.
- ``children: React.ReactNode``

Configure a Realm with RealmProvider
------------------------------------

You can configure a ``RealmProvider`` in two ways. This section details how to
configure a ``RealmProvider`` imported directly from ``@realm/react``. You can
also use ``createRealmContext()`` to configure a ``RealmProvider`` and create 
hooks on your own. For details, refer to :ref:`Create Context with
createRealmContext() <react-native-realm-context>`

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Configure realm with sync
      :tabid: configure-sync-realm
   
      Configure a synced realm using the providers from ``@realm/react``.

      By default, Realm syncs all data from the server before returning anything.
      If you want to sync data in the background, read :ref:`Configure a Synced Realm
      While Offline <react-native-open-synced-realm-offline>`.

      To configure a synced realm:

      #. Import providers from ``@realm/react``.
      #. Configure ``AppProvider``.

>       #. Configure ``UserProvider`` and nest it within ``AppProvider``.

Reviewer: Perhaps links to the sections detailing these providers would be helpful.

      #. Configure ``RealmProvider`` for sync and nest it within ``UserProvider``.

      You must set up a sync subscription. The example below uses an initial subscription,
      but you can also set up subscriptions in ``RealmProvider`` child components.

      This is how you nest providers:

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/configure-realm-sync.test.snippet.configure-realm-sync-full.tsx
        :language: javascript

      For for information about configuring a synced realm, refer to
      :ref:`Configure a Synced Realm <react-native-synced-realm>`.

   .. tab:: Configure realm without sync
      :tabid: configure-non-sync-realm
   
      :realm-react-sdk:`RealmProvider <functions/RealmProvider.html>` is a wrapper
      that exposes a realm to its child components. You configure your realm by
      passing props to ``RealmProvider``.

      When ``RealmProvider`` is rendered, it opens the realm. This means that the
      provider renders successfully or its child components can't access the realm.

      To configure a non-synced realm:

      #. Import ``RealmProvider`` from ``@realm/react``.

>       #. Pass your object models to the ``schema`` prop.

Reviewer: Linking to model setup may also be helpful

component using the hook on any change to the object.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/read.test.snippet.crud-read-object-by-id.tsx
         :language: typescript

*Parameters* 

- ``type: string``
  A string that matches your object model's class name or a reference to a
  class that extends :js-sdk:`Realm.Object <classes/Object.html>`.
- ``primaryKey: T[keyof T]``
  The primary key of the desired object.

*Returns*

- ``Realm.Object | null``
  A Realm Object or ``null`` if no object is found.

.. _react-native-use-query-hook:

useQuery()
~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: typescript
   :copyable: false
   :caption: Type signature

   useQuery<T>(type, query?, deps?): Realm.Results<T & Realm.Object<T>>

The ``useQuery()`` hook returns a collection of realm objects of a given type.
These are the results of your query. A query can be an object class or the class
name as a string.

The ``useQuery()`` method subscribes to updates to any objects in the collection
and rerenders the component using it on any change to the results.

You can use ``.filtered()`` and ``.sorted()`` to filter and sort your query

> results. You should do this in the ``query`` argument of ``useQuery``. For more

Reviewer: We should explain that the `filtered` and `sorted` calls within the callback will not be called unless there are changes in the dependency array (third argument).

Also we should show an example using the dependency array.

and use the ``RealmProvider`` hooks.

Props
-----

All properties of :realm-react-sdk:`BaseConfiguration 
<types/Realm.BaseConfiguration.html>` can be passed as props.

``RealmProvider`` has more props that define its behavior:

- ``fallback?: React.ComponentType<unknown> | React.ReactElement | null | undefined``

  The fallback component to render while the Realm is opening.
- ``closeOnUnmount?: boolean``

  Default is ``true``. If set to ``false``, realm will not close when the
  component unmounts.
- ``realmRef?: React.MutableRefObject<Realm | null>``

  A ref to the realm instance. This is useful if you need to access the realm
  instance outside of the scope of the realm.
- ``children: React.ReactNode``

Configure a Realm with RealmProvider
------------------------------------

You can configure a ``RealmProvider`` in two ways:

- Import ``RealmProvider`` directly from ``@realm/react``
- Use ``createRealmContext()`` to configure a ``RealmProvider`` and create hooks

This section details how to configure a ``RealmProvider`` imported directly from
``@realm/react``. For information about using ``createRealmContext()``, refer

> to :ref:`Create Context with createRealmContext() <react-native-realm-context>`.

Author: Yeah, I think it's generally good to avoid linking to sections on the same page, but is useful in this particular instance.

   :copyable: false
   :caption: Type signature

   useQuery<T>(type, query?, deps?): Realm.Results<T & Realm.Object<T>>

The ``useQuery()`` hook returns a collection of realm objects of a given type.
These are the results of your query. A query can be an object class or the class
name as a string.

The ``useQuery()`` method subscribes to updates to any objects in the collection
and rerenders the component using it on any change to the results.

You can use ``.filtered()`` and ``.sorted()`` to filter and sort your query
results. You should do this in the ``query`` argument of ``useQuery`` so that
they only run when there are changes in the dependency array. For more examples,
refer to the :ref:`CRUD - Read <react-native-read-objects>` docs.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/read.test.snippet.crud-read-filter-data.tsx
    :language: typescript
    :emphasize-lines: 3-5, 8-14

*Parameters* 

- ``type: string``
  A string that matches your object model's class name or a reference to a
  class that extends :js-sdk:`Realm.Object <classes/Object.html>`.
- ``query?: QueryCallback<T>``
  A query function that can filter and sort query results. Builds on

>   ``useCallback`` to memoize the query function.

Author: "memoize" is actually the correct term here. https://react.dev/reference/react/memo

>   ``useCallback`` to memoize the query function.

Reviewer 2: I've learned a new word!

      :tabid: configure-sync-realm
   

>       Configure a synced realm using the providers from ``@realm/react``. To do

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Configure a synced realm using the providers from ``@realm/react``.
```

      You must set up a sync subscription. The example below uses an initial subscription,
      but you can also set up subscriptions in ``RealmProvider`` child components.

      You must nest providers as in the following example:

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/configure-realm-sync.test.snippet.configure-realm-sync-full.tsx

>         :language: javascript

Reviewer 2: On line 103, there is a link to this same page. I would remove.

hooks from the result of ``createRealmContext()``. You should namespace providers
to avoid confusion about which provider and hooks you're working with.

For a detailed guide, refer to :ref:`Expose More Than One Realm 
<react-native-expose-multiple-realms>`.

> For a details about ``createRealmContext()``, refer to the below section Create Context with createRealmContext() 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For details about ``createRealmContext()``, refer to the below section Create Context with createRealmContext() 
```

>  on this page.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure why, but this whole sentence is bolded on the preview page. Will need to fix.

- ``RealmContext``
  An object containing a ``RealmProvider`` component, and the ``useRealm``,

>   ``useQuery`` and ``useObject`` hooks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ``useQuery`` and ``useObject`` hooks.
```
